---
title: 'Projects'
layout: 'default'
author: 'Serge Stinckwich'
description: 'Projects'
---
#Projects

- 2013-2015 CloudSimBot project (Large-Scale Rescue Robotics Simulation Engine in the Cloud) with LAAS/CNRS (France), Kyoto University (Japan), University of Engineering and Technology (UET)/ Vietnam National University (VNU) of Hanoi and MSI/Institut de la Francophonie pour l’Informatique/Vietnam National University. Funded by ICT-ASIA (26KEuros) 
- 2012 ROADMAP (Risks and envirOnnementAl monitoring for Disaster Mitigation Applied to Philippines) project - Research partnership with Universities of Anteneo de Manila (Quezon) and Siliman (Dumaguete) for an exchange of researchers between France and Philippines.
- 2009-2013, responsible for the toolchain workpackage of [PROTEUS](http://www.anr-proteus.fr/) (Platform for RObotic models Transformations and Exchange between Users and Scientific communities), funded by the French National Research Agency. The main aim of this project is to build dedicated software tools for the French robotic community in order to facilitate the transfer of knowledge between academic and industrial users (Funding: 2 096 227 €, 14 partners).

- 2007-2010 AROUND (Autonomous Robots for Observation of Urban Networks) programme launched by several french partners (UMMISCO team from Institut de la Francophonie pour l'Informatique à Hà Nôi, IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement), L3i from La Rochelle University, GREYC from University of Caen Lower Normandy, LIESP from University of Lyon 1 and École des Mines de Douai) and vietnamese partners (Geophysical Institute of the Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology (VAST), robotic laboratory of Hanoi University of Technology (HUT)). 
AROUND aims at designing an automated observation system based on the deployment for simple mobile autonomous sensors that deals with specificities of developing countries in terms of “search and rescue” robotics. The system is based on (i) a local level with the deployment of autonomous mobile robots able to collect information in impacted urban sites and to dynamically maintain the communication links between rescuers, and (ii) a global level based on a Spatial Decision Support System (SDSS).
- 2003-2007 [VERYSMALLTALK](http://vst.ensm-douai.fr/VerySmallTalk) (VERY SMALL smallTALK) is an ubiquitous computing project done in collaboration with Dr. Noury Bouraqadi from Ecole des Mines de Douai (France). This project resulted in the publication of a dozen papers and co-supervision of three master students and one PhD student. The main objective of this project was to design and build a software infrastructure dedicated to ubiquitous computing, based on a mininal Smalltalk kernel, capable of unanticipated adjustments by taking into account constraints resources. Several research lines have been followed: how to integrate several concerns in a multi-agent system with the help of AOP (Aspect-Oriented Programming), agent architecture based on anticipatory components, dynamic allocation of roles. Experiments have been done on PDAs, smart phones but also mobile robots teams.
- 2002-2007 SQUEAKBOT, a pedagogical robotic platform based on visual programming in partnership with Planète Sciences. [SqueakBot](http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Projects/SqueakBot) is an educational robotics platform, used by kids that allows them to control and simulate robots. The long-term goals of this project is on the first hand to have a software architecture tailored to small size physical devices (with limited memory and computation resources) and on the other hand to be able to mix in a same platform devices simulated by the computer and devices coupled to the physical environment. This project is realized in collaboration with Planète Sciences, which aims to develop the scientific and technical culture by organizing activities (summer camps, exhibitions, etc.) where children can perform experiments related to astronomy, space (micro-rocket), weather, environment and finally robotics. Planet Science has developed an original approach based on robotic components to teach children how to design  and program robots. Our collaboration resulted in the realization of a first prototype named SqueakBot. This platform is based on modular components that are connected to control sensors and actuators of real robots and on the definition of a visual domain-specific language for robots.
- 2002-2005 MAAM (Molecule = Atom | Atom + Molecule) Atomic reconfigurable robotics - CNRS ROBEA (Robotic and artificial entities) programme. This project (PI: Pr. Dominique Duhaut, VALORIA, University of Southern Brittany) was a multidisciplinary project between robotics, artificial intelligence and electronic.
The main idea was to define basic components called "robotic atoms" that allows the construction of complex structures thanks to self-organization techniques that are incorporated into these atoms.
The robotic atoms are built on the principle of physics of atoms, that is to say, with degrees of connectivity that allow them to assemble into molecules that can be broken at any time to regroup in another molecule according to the task.
In the context of this project, we developed an approach based on reconfigurable topodynamic graph models for modeling modular robots and we have proposed learning algorithms for the atoms locomotion.