---
title: 'First Collaborative Technology for Coordinating Crisis Management (CT2CM) Track of WETICE-2011'
layout: 'public'
author: 'Serge Stinckwich'
description: 'Collaborative Technology for Coordinating Crisis Management (CT2CM) track of WETICE-2011, Paris, France'
---
# First Collaborative Technology for Coordinating Crisis Management (CT2CM) Track of WETICE-2011, Paris, France

This track will take place in June 2011 in Paris (France) during the [20th IEEE International Conference Collaboration Technologies and Infrastructures (WETICE 2011)](http://events.telecom-sudparis.eu/wetice/).

## Description
In crisis situations (natural or industrial disasters, riots, ...), the different actors managing crisis resolution have to act simultaneously in emergency situations to reduce its impacts on the real world. To achieve this common goal as quickly and efficiently as possible, these actors (police, military forces, medical organizations, NGOs but also emerging groups) have to collaborate and act in a coordinated way. In the term ‘coordination’, we include all the work needed for the actors, for the connected integration of their information systems and also for the flexible synchronization of their efforts, in order to handle the crisis in the most efficient way.
Coordination raises several problems such as the definition of the universe of discourse, without which it would be impossible to solve the various semantic conflicts that are bound to occur between several autonomous and heterogeneous actors and their ISs. It involves the finding of partners, emergent partners integration, their collective decisions, partners plans negotiation and the synchronization of the distributed and concurrent execution of their actions and plans.
Moreover, in a highly dynamic, open, unstable and uncertain environment, such as the one met in crisis context, coordination should be redesigned to be more reactive, pro-active, adaptive, robust and visible for all the partners while preserving the essential part of their autonomy. It is intended that this track should focus mainly on the benefits of adopting collaborative enabling information technologies such as: Agent based-systems, Collaborative BPMS, Semantic Web or Group Decision Support Systems (DSS).

This track will try to address the following issues: how can collaborative information technologies help with the coordination of Crisis Management ? It is meant to cover the foundations, techniques, methodologies and applications of Collaborative Information Technologies for Coordinating Crisis Management. The track is interdisciplinary in nature and open to contributions from fields as varied as Cooperative Information Systems, Multi- Agent Systems, Business Process Management and the Semantic Web.

## Track topics
Topics include, but are not limited to:

- Cooperative Information Gathering and Situation Awareness,
- Social Networks (media, citizens, ...) observations,
- Crisis Ontology,
- Adaptive and self-organization of the crisis management teams,
- Information System Interoperability and Inter-organizational issues,
- Group decision support,
- Crisis process design, enactment and adaptation,
- Agent models for : negotiation, trust, resource allocation, planning and acting collaboratively,
- Crisis Management Systems.

## Submissions guidelines
All submitted papers will be reviewed on the basis of technical quality, relevance, significance, and clarity. At least three reviews for each paper will be conducted. We are looking for submission of full research papers and reports on field studies (up to 8 pages). All track papers should be submitted electronically in PDF format through the Easychair website http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ct2cm2011 and should use the IEEE US letter format. Every submitted paper will be evaluated by at least three members of the program committee. Accepted papers will be published along with the WETICE 2011 proceedings by the IEEE Computer Society Press. Note that at least one author from each accepted paper should register to attend WETICE 2011 for the paper to be published in the proceedings.

- [Download the LateX template in US Letter](http://ras.papercept.net/conferences/support/files/ieeeconf.zip)
- [Download the Word template in US Letter](http://ras.papercept.net/conferences/support/files/ieeeconf_letter.dot)

## Important dates
- Papers submission deadline: ++March 5th, 2011++ March 18th, 2011 {{color hex="#DD0000" text="Extended deadline"}}
- Notification of acceptance to authors: ++April 4th, 2011++ April 11th, 2011
- Camera Ready papers to IEEE: April 29th, 2011
- 20th IEEE WETICE-2011 conference: June 27th-29th, 2011

## Track co-chairs
- [François Charoy](http://www.loria.fr/~charoy/), University of Nancy 1, France
- [Chihab Hanachi](http://w3.univ-tlse1.fr/irit/soc/perso/hanachi/), University of Toulouse 1, France
- [Serge Stinckwich](http://doesnotunderstand.org/), UMI 209 UMMISCO (IRD/UPMC/MSI-IFI), Vietnam

## Program committee
- Yasmine Arafa, CITE - School of Computing, IT and Engineering, University of East London, UK
- Frédéric Benaben, École des Mines d'Albi, France
- Nik Bessis, University of Derby, UK
- Ghassan Beydoun, School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of New South Wales, Australia
- Maroua Bouzid, Université de Caen, France
- [Julie Dugdale](http://membres-lig.imag.fr/dugdale/), Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble, Magma Team, France
- Schahram Dustdar, Information Systems Institute Vienna University of Technology, Vita Lab, Austria
- [Frank Fiedrich](http://www.gwu.edu/~icdrm/People/fiedrich.htm), Public Safety and Emergency Management, Dept. of Safety Engineering, Wuppertal University, Germany
- [Jörn Franke](http://www.loria.fr/~frankejo/), SAP Research Sophia Antipolis, France
- Walid Gaaloul, Telecom Sud Paris, France
- Zdenk Metodej, ZALIS, Czech Republic
- Gilles Morel, University of Technology, Compiègne, France	
- Pascal Salembier, Université de Technologie de Troyes, France
- Gerhard Wickler, Artificial Intelligence Applications Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland
- Mohamed Moez Yeddes, ENSI, Tunisia

##Contact
Please contact Serge Stinckwich (Serge DOT Stinckwich AT gmail DOT com) for further enquiries about the workshop.